docs/api/datasets.rst, before:

torchgeo.datasets
=================

.. module:: torchgeo.datasets

In :mod:`torchgeo`, we define two types of datasets: :ref:`Geospatial Datasets` and :ref:`Non-geospatial Datasets`. These abstract base classes are documented in more detail in :ref:`Base Classes`.

.. _Geospatial Datasets:

Geospatial Datasets
-------------------

:class:`GeoDataset` is designed for datasets that contain geospatial information, like latitude, longitude, coordinate system, and projection. Datasets containing this kind of information can be combined using :class:`IntersectionDataset` and :class:`UnionDataset`.

.. csv-table::
   :widths: 30 15 20 36 20 15
   :header-rows: 1
   :align: center
   :file: datasets/geo_datasets.csv

Aboveground Woody Biomass
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: AbovegroundLiveWoodyBiomassDensity

AgriFieldNet
^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: AgriFieldNet

Airphen
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Airphen

Aster Global DEM
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: AsterGDEM

Canadian Building Footprints
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CanadianBuildingFootprints

Chesapeake Land Cover
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Chesapeake
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeDC
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeDE
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeMD
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeNY
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakePA
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeVA
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeWV
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeCVPR

Global Mangrove Distribution
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CMSGlobalMangroveCanopy

Cropland Data Layer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CDL

EDDMapS
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: EDDMapS

EnviroAtlas
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: EnviroAtlas

Esri2020
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Esri2020

EU-DEM
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: EUDEM

EuroCrops
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: EuroCrops

GBIF
^^^^

.. autoclass:: GBIF

GlobBiomass
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: GlobBiomass

iNaturalist
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: INaturalist

I/O Bench
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: IOBench

L7 Irish
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: L7Irish

L8 Biome
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: L8Biome

LandCover.ai Geo
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: LandCoverAIBase
.. autoclass:: LandCoverAIGeo

Landsat
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Landsat
.. autoclass:: Landsat9
.. autoclass:: Landsat8
.. autoclass:: Landsat7
.. autoclass:: Landsat5TM
.. autoclass:: Landsat5MSS
.. autoclass:: Landsat4TM
.. autoclass:: Landsat4MSS
.. autoclass:: Landsat3
.. autoclass:: Landsat2
.. autoclass:: Landsat1

NAIP
^^^^

.. autoclass:: NAIP

NCCM
^^^^

.. autoclass:: NCCM

NLCD
^^^^

.. autoclass:: NLCD

Open Buildings
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: OpenBuildings

PRISMA
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: PRISMA

Sentinel
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Sentinel
.. autoclass:: Sentinel1
.. autoclass:: Sentinel2

South Africa Crop Type
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SouthAfricaCropType

South America Soybean
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SouthAmericaSoybean

.. _Non-geospatial Datasets:

Non-geospatial Datasets
-----------------------

:class:`NonGeoDataset` is designed for datasets that lack geospatial information. These datasets can still be combined using :class:`ConcatDataset <torch.utils.data.ConcatDataset>`.

.. csv-table:: C = classification,  R = regression, S = semantic segmentation, I = instance segmentation, T = time series, CD = change detection, OD = object detection, IC = image captioning
   :widths: 15 7 15 20 12 11 12 15 13
   :header-rows: 1
   :align: center
   :file: datasets/non_geo_datasets.csv

ADVANCE
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ADVANCE

Benin Cashew Plantations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: BeninSmallHolderCashews

BigEarthNet
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: BigEarthNet

BioMassters
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: BioMassters

CaBuAr
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CaBuAr

ChaBuD
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ChaBuD

Cloud Cover Detection
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CloudCoverDetection

COWC
^^^^

.. autoclass:: COWC
.. autoclass:: COWCCounting
.. autoclass:: COWCDetection

CropHarvest
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CropHarvest

Kenya Crop Type
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CV4AKenyaCropType

DeepGlobe Land Cover
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: DeepGlobeLandCover

DFC2022
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: DFC2022


Digital Typhoon
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: DigitalTyphoon

ETCI2021 Flood Detection
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ETCI2021

EuroSAT
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: EuroSAT
.. autoclass:: EuroSATSpatial
.. autoclass:: EuroSAT100

FAIR1M
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: FAIR1M

FireRisk
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: FireRisk

Forest Damage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ForestDamage

GeoNRW
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: GeoNRW

GID-15
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: GID15

IDTReeS
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: IDTReeS

Inria Aerial Image Labeling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: InriaAerialImageLabeling

LandCover.ai
^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: LandCoverAI
.. autoclass:: LandCoverAI100

LEVIR-CD
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: LEVIRCDBase
.. autoclass:: LEVIRCD

LEVIR-CD+
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: LEVIRCDPlus

LoveDA
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: LoveDA

MapInWild
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: MapInWild

Million-AID
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: MillionAID

NASA Marine Debris
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: NASAMarineDebris

OSCD
^^^^

.. autoclass:: OSCD

PASTIS
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: PASTIS

PatternNet
^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: PatternNet

Potsdam
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Potsdam2D

QuakeSet
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: QuakeSet

ReforesTree
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ReforesTree

RESISC45
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: RESISC45

Rwanda Field Boundary
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: RwandaFieldBoundary

Seasonal Contrast
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SeasonalContrastS2

SeasoNet
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SeasoNet

SEN12MS
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SEN12MS

SKIPP'D
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SKIPPD

SkyScript
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SkyScript

So2Sat
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: So2Sat

SpaceNet
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SpaceNet
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet1
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet2
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet3
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet4
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet5
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet6
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet7
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet8

SSL4EO
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SSL4EO
.. autoclass:: SSL4EOL
.. autoclass:: SSL4EOS12

SSL4EO-L Benchmark
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SSL4EOLBenchmark

SustainBench Crop Yield
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SustainBenchCropYield

Tropical Cyclone
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: TropicalCyclone

UC Merced
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: UCMerced

USAVars
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: USAVars

Vaihingen
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Vaihingen2D

VHR-10
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: VHR10

Western USA Live Fuel Moisture
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: WesternUSALiveFuelMoisture

xView2
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: XView2

ZueriCrop
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ZueriCrop

.. _Base Classes:

Base Classes
------------

If you want to write your own custom dataset, you can extend one of these abstract base classes.

GeoDataset
^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: GeoDataset

RasterDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: RasterDataset

VectorDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: VectorDataset

NonGeoDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: NonGeoDataset

NonGeoClassificationDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: NonGeoClassificationDataset

IntersectionDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: IntersectionDataset

UnionDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: UnionDataset

Utilities
---------

.. autoclass:: BoundingBox

Collation Functions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autofunction:: stack_samples
.. autofunction:: concat_samples
.. autofunction:: merge_samples
.. autofunction:: unbind_samples

Splitting Functions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autofunction:: random_bbox_assignment
.. autofunction:: random_bbox_splitting
.. autofunction:: random_grid_cell_assignment
.. autofunction:: roi_split
.. autofunction:: time_series_split

Errors
------

.. autoclass:: DatasetNotFoundError
.. autoclass:: DependencyNotFoundError
.. autoclass:: RGBBandsMissingError

Commit message:

Add Fields Of The World field boundary delineation dataset (#2296)
* Initial commit

* Formatting changes

* Reformatting how self.files is stored

* Added pyarrow dependency for reading parquet files

* Load splits from existing parquet files

* ruff

* Adding tests

* Adding tests

* Ruff

* Update torchgeo/datasets/ftw.py

Co-authored-by: Adam J. Stewart <ajstewart426@gmail.com>

* Update torchgeo/datasets/ftw.py

Co-authored-by: Adam J. Stewart <ajstewart426@gmail.com>

* Update torchgeo/datasets/ftw.py

Co-authored-by: Adam J. Stewart <ajstewart426@gmail.com>

* Using einops

* Use tuple for valid country list

* Add pandas parquet

* Added pyarrow req to min dataset

* pandas bump

* Add paper link

* Add a pyarrow importorskip

* No minversion

* ClassVar not needed

---------

Co-authored-by: Adam J. Stewart <ajstewart426@gmail.com>

docs/api/datasets.rst, after:

torchgeo.datasets
=================

.. module:: torchgeo.datasets

In :mod:`torchgeo`, we define two types of datasets: :ref:`Geospatial Datasets` and :ref:`Non-geospatial Datasets`. These abstract base classes are documented in more detail in :ref:`Base Classes`.

.. _Geospatial Datasets:

Geospatial Datasets
-------------------

:class:`GeoDataset` is designed for datasets that contain geospatial information, like latitude, longitude, coordinate system, and projection. Datasets containing this kind of information can be combined using :class:`IntersectionDataset` and :class:`UnionDataset`.

.. csv-table::
   :widths: 30 15 20 36 20 15
   :header-rows: 1
   :align: center
   :file: datasets/geo_datasets.csv

Aboveground Woody Biomass
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: AbovegroundLiveWoodyBiomassDensity

AgriFieldNet
^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: AgriFieldNet

Airphen
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Airphen

Aster Global DEM
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: AsterGDEM

Canadian Building Footprints
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CanadianBuildingFootprints

Chesapeake Land Cover
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Chesapeake
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeDC
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeDE
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeMD
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeNY
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakePA
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeVA
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeWV
.. autoclass:: ChesapeakeCVPR

Global Mangrove Distribution
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CMSGlobalMangroveCanopy

Cropland Data Layer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CDL

EDDMapS
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: EDDMapS

EnviroAtlas
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: EnviroAtlas

Esri2020
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Esri2020

EU-DEM
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: EUDEM

EuroCrops
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: EuroCrops

GBIF
^^^^

.. autoclass:: GBIF

GlobBiomass
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: GlobBiomass

iNaturalist
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: INaturalist

I/O Bench
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: IOBench

L7 Irish
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: L7Irish

L8 Biome
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: L8Biome

LandCover.ai Geo
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: LandCoverAIBase
.. autoclass:: LandCoverAIGeo

Landsat
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Landsat
.. autoclass:: Landsat9
.. autoclass:: Landsat8
.. autoclass:: Landsat7
.. autoclass:: Landsat5TM
.. autoclass:: Landsat5MSS
.. autoclass:: Landsat4TM
.. autoclass:: Landsat4MSS
.. autoclass:: Landsat3
.. autoclass:: Landsat2
.. autoclass:: Landsat1

NAIP
^^^^

.. autoclass:: NAIP

NCCM
^^^^

.. autoclass:: NCCM

NLCD
^^^^

.. autoclass:: NLCD

Open Buildings
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: OpenBuildings

PRISMA
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: PRISMA

Sentinel
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Sentinel
.. autoclass:: Sentinel1
.. autoclass:: Sentinel2

South Africa Crop Type
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SouthAfricaCropType

South America Soybean
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SouthAmericaSoybean

.. _Non-geospatial Datasets:

Non-geospatial Datasets
-----------------------

:class:`NonGeoDataset` is designed for datasets that lack geospatial information. These datasets can still be combined using :class:`ConcatDataset <torch.utils.data.ConcatDataset>`.

.. csv-table:: C = classification,  R = regression, S = semantic segmentation, I = instance segmentation, T = time series, CD = change detection, OD = object detection, IC = image captioning
   :widths: 15 7 15 20 12 11 12 15 13
   :header-rows: 1
   :align: center
   :file: datasets/non_geo_datasets.csv

ADVANCE
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ADVANCE

Benin Cashew Plantations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: BeninSmallHolderCashews

BigEarthNet
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: BigEarthNet

BioMassters
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: BioMassters

CaBuAr
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CaBuAr

ChaBuD
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ChaBuD

Cloud Cover Detection
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CloudCoverDetection

COWC
^^^^

.. autoclass:: COWC
.. autoclass:: COWCCounting
.. autoclass:: COWCDetection

CropHarvest
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CropHarvest

Kenya Crop Type
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: CV4AKenyaCropType

DeepGlobe Land Cover
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: DeepGlobeLandCover

DFC2022
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: DFC2022


Digital Typhoon
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: DigitalTyphoon

ETCI2021 Flood Detection
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ETCI2021

EuroSAT
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: EuroSAT
.. autoclass:: EuroSATSpatial
.. autoclass:: EuroSAT100

FAIR1M
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: FAIR1M

Fields Of The World
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: FieldsOfTheWorld

FireRisk
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: FireRisk

Forest Damage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ForestDamage

GeoNRW
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: GeoNRW

GID-15
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: GID15

IDTReeS
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: IDTReeS

Inria Aerial Image Labeling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: InriaAerialImageLabeling

LandCover.ai
^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: LandCoverAI
.. autoclass:: LandCoverAI100

LEVIR-CD
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: LEVIRCDBase
.. autoclass:: LEVIRCD

LEVIR-CD+
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: LEVIRCDPlus

LoveDA
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: LoveDA

MapInWild
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: MapInWild

Million-AID
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: MillionAID

NASA Marine Debris
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: NASAMarineDebris

OSCD
^^^^

.. autoclass:: OSCD

PASTIS
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: PASTIS

PatternNet
^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: PatternNet

Potsdam
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Potsdam2D

QuakeSet
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: QuakeSet

ReforesTree
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ReforesTree

RESISC45
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: RESISC45

Rwanda Field Boundary
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: RwandaFieldBoundary

Seasonal Contrast
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SeasonalContrastS2

SeasoNet
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SeasoNet

SEN12MS
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SEN12MS

SKIPP'D
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SKIPPD

SkyScript
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SkyScript

So2Sat
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: So2Sat

SpaceNet
^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SpaceNet
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet1
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet2
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet3
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet4
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet5
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet6
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet7
.. autoclass:: SpaceNet8

SSL4EO
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SSL4EO
.. autoclass:: SSL4EOL
.. autoclass:: SSL4EOS12

SSL4EO-L Benchmark
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SSL4EOLBenchmark

SustainBench Crop Yield
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: SustainBenchCropYield

Tropical Cyclone
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: TropicalCyclone

UC Merced
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: UCMerced

USAVars
^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: USAVars

Vaihingen
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: Vaihingen2D

VHR-10
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: VHR10

Western USA Live Fuel Moisture
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: WesternUSALiveFuelMoisture

xView2
^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: XView2

ZueriCrop
^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: ZueriCrop

.. _Base Classes:

Base Classes
------------

If you want to write your own custom dataset, you can extend one of these abstract base classes.

GeoDataset
^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: GeoDataset

RasterDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: RasterDataset

VectorDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: VectorDataset

NonGeoDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: NonGeoDataset

NonGeoClassificationDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: NonGeoClassificationDataset

IntersectionDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: IntersectionDataset

UnionDataset
^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: UnionDataset

Utilities
---------

.. autoclass:: BoundingBox

Collation Functions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autofunction:: stack_samples
.. autofunction:: concat_samples
.. autofunction:: merge_samples
.. autofunction:: unbind_samples

Splitting Functions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. autofunction:: random_bbox_assignment
.. autofunction:: random_bbox_splitting
.. autofunction:: random_grid_cell_assignment
.. autofunction:: roi_split
.. autofunction:: time_series_split

Errors
------

.. autoclass:: DatasetNotFoundError
.. autoclass:: DependencyNotFoundError
.. autoclass:: RGBBandsMissingError
